this is a quick tip to help improve your
basic forehand cut back a common error
with cut backs is not holding the turn
for long enough these examples show what
happens if you come out of the cut back
too early look at the difference in the
arms and upper body movement between the
two surfers both surfers start off with
a good bottom turn both surfers start
the rotation and weighted back leg as
they start to cut back then the surfer
on the right stops the rotation too
early and starts pointing her leading
shoulder and head in the wrong direction
whereas the surfer on the Left continues
to point his head and leading shoulder
towards the whitewater and continues
with the trunk rotation
the same mistake applies to the surfer
in this clip look where the head is
pointing this is a basic technique to
improve your cutbacks
be the schema the odds-on believer
be the dream this section aims to help
improve your all-round performance of
turns by using all the way face
mid face turns result in week or
uncomplete moves you really need to
experiment with this and make a
conscious effort to turn higher up the
wave face whether it's frontside or
backside if you get a chance to watch
yourself on video then check to see if
you're using all the wave face
rabid for the dogs to run what have we
done
and then it's a matter of seeing how
late you can leave it until you turn
this tip results in faster and more
powerful turns
you